This is Jockel Podcast number 58 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
Now, a couple of shows ago when Dr. Peter T. was on, he mentioned an article. And I hesitate to call it an article because it is actually much more than just an article.
A elegant piece that was published in the New York Times written by his friend and the daughter of one of his mentors, a woman named Naomi Rosenberg, Dr. Naomi Rosenberg, who is a doctor at Temple University.
And Peter said that this article truly captured the emotions and the struggle and the methodology for delivering the worst news to a parent that their child had died.
And I, of course, read the article and I found it incredible. And I wanted to share it with you in case you didn't have a chance to read it yourself yet.
Here it is from the opinion section of the New York Times on September 3, 2016 by Dr. Naomi Rosenberg.
How to tell a mother her child is dead? First, you get your coat. I don't care if you don't remember where you left it, you find it. If there was a lot of blood, you ask someone to go quickly to the basement to get you new set of scrubs.
You put on your coat and you go into the bathroom. You look into the mirror and you say it. You use the mother's name and you use her child's name. You may not adjust this part in any way.
I will show you if it were my mother you would say Mrs. Rosenberg, I have terrible, terrible news. Naomi died today. You say it out loud until you can say it clearly and loudly. How loudly loud enough.
If it takes you fewer than five tries you are rushing it and you will not do it right. You take your time.
After the bathroom you do nothing before you go to her. You don't make a phone call, you do not talk to the medical student, you do not put in an order. You never make her wait. She is his mother.
When you get inside the room you will know who the mother is. Yes, I am very sure.
Shake her hand and tell her who you are. If there is time you shake everyone's hand. Yes, you will know if there is time.
You never stand. If there are no seats left the couches have arms on them.
You will have a decision to make. About whether you will ask her what she already knows.
If you were the one to call her and tell her that her son had been shot then you already have done part of it.
But you have not done it yet. You are about to do it now. You never make her wait. She is his mother.
Now you explode the world. Yes, you have to. You say something like Mrs. Booker. I have terrible, terrible news.
Ernest died today. Then you wait. You will not stand up. You may leave yourself in the heaviness of your breath or the racing of your pulse or the sight of your shoelaces on your shoe, but you will not stand up.
You are here for her. She is his mother.
If the mother has another son with her and he has punched the wall or broken the chair do not be worried.
The one that punched the wall or broke the chair will be better than the one who looks down and refuses to cry.
The one who punched the wall or broke the chair will be much easier than the sister who looks up and closes her eyes as they fill.
Security is already outside the room. When they hear the first loud noise they will know to come in.
No, you will not have to tell them. They know about the family room in the emergency department in summer in North Philadelphia.
It is alright. They will be kind. If the chair cannot be sat in again, that is alright.
We have money for new chairs every summer. If you does not break your chair, you stay in your chair. If you do, you find a new place to sit.
You are here for the mother and you have more to do.
If she asks you, you will tell her what you know. You do not lie.
But do not say he was murdered or he was killed. Yes, I know that he was, but that is not what you say. You say that he died.
That is the part that you saw and that you know.
When she asks, if he felt any pain, you must be very careful.
If he did not, you assure her quickly. If he did, you do not lie.
But his pain is over now.
Do not ever say he was lucky that he did not feel pain.
He was not lucky. She is not lucky.
Don't make that face.
The depth of the stupidity of the things you will say sometimes is unimaginable.
Before you leave, you break her heart one more time.
No, I am sorry, but you cannot see him. There are strict rules when a person dies this way and the police have to take him first.
We cannot let you in. I am so sorry.
You do not ever say the body. It is not a body. It is her son.
You want to tell her that you know that he was hers. But she knows that.
And she does not need for you to tell her.
Instead, tell her you will give her time and come back in case she has questions.
More questions or questions for the first time.
If she has no questions, you do not give her the answers to the questions she has not asked.
You leave the room. Do not yell at the medical student who has a question.
When you get home, do not yell at your husband.
If he left his socks on the floor again today, it is all right.
And that concludes the article and it concludes the instructions from Dr. Rosenberg.
And I know we are all not doctors. And even in my old job, even when men were killed, my men were killed.
I did not ever have to deliver this news.
I was still overseas. Still fighting.
And the military has a process, a procedure to notify the next of kin when a service member
was killed and that is well documented. But I never had to do this.
But even though we are not doctors, I guess most of us are blessed in the fact that we don't have to deliver this news.
But I still think there is much to be learned.
First of all, to get some sense of what doctors and nurses and medical personnel go through on a daily basis.
And the methodology that you can really back that off a little bit and think about how you can use it in situations to deliver other bad news.
Rehers what you are going to say.
Say it in the mirror out loud. Be direct, simply and clearly state the facts.
So there is no ambiguity. And so there is no question about what it is that you said.
And then wait. You don't need to say anymore. You already said it.
Don't distract from the words.
Don't take away from the statement by adding to it. You said it.
Leave it alone.
You don't need to fill the silence with words. Words are good. But sometimes silence is better.
Then that includes the part that Dr. Rosenberg pointed out about the way that we tend to answer questions that won't even ask.
No.
The other thing that she obviously has had to contend with is the emotions from other people.
Don't let them surprise you.
Expect it.
If someone wants to get angry, that's okay.
If someone breaks down, that's okay.
No.
That it is coming.
Don't let it surprise you. Don't let it catch you off guard.
And she talks about body language as well. She says, don't make that face.
So we have to be aware of our body language.
Our body language is a language.
And it communicates to people.
So make sure that the message you are communicating with your body language is the right message.
And then lastly, she talks about detachment.
And the fact that even though you've gone through this horrific emotional situation,
leave it in the room, don't take out the anger and the frustration and the emotions that you do feel.
Don't take them out on the intern or the medical student or your spouse or your children.
Because whatever you're pretending to be mad about, doesn't matter.
And what does matter is life.
So live it.
And live it well.
And reading and thinking about what Dr. Rosenberg wrote, it made me think of a letter that I had read some time ago.
That is sort of the reciprocal of this.
Instead of being a child that's lost, this is about a parent that's lost.
Now when parents grow old and we reach old age, part of life is death.
But there are events in the world that bring early deaths.
And I remember the letter that I had read, which was written by John Roland McGinley Burns,
who held the rank of Trooper in the two seven cavalry, commando regimen in the Australian Army.
And he wrote this letter about ten months into the brutal campaign in New Guinea,
where the allies met the determined Japanese imperial troops,
who as we all know fought ruthlessly and fought to the death.
And not only were the allies fighting against the Japanese soldiers, they also fought against the diseases of the jungle,
with nearly a hundred percent of the men suffering malaria, typos, it was a nightmare.
The bloody fever-stricken miserable nightmare.
So in that nightmare facing death, in that darkness, John Burns found the good.
He found the light.
And here's what he had to say in a letter written to his little daughter for her second birthday.
Wednesday, October 21, 1942.
The last night was a beautiful moonlit night.
Every star that studied the sky, sky was sparkling like a jewel.
The air was crisp, but faintly perfume with all the fragrances,
only a lovely spring night can devise.
Today, it is raining hard. The wind is fierce and cold.
Yes, it is miserable, something you want to pass by quickly, so that the night will again be beautiful.
Life too, and it's like the weather.
Some days are so lovely, the happenings of those days so enchanting, you can never forget them.
Some are so unhappy, you wish they never happened, but alas they must for your life.
Your mother's mind, everyone's is so mixed up with joy and sadness that you never have one or the other for long.
One replaces the other with a speed that is amazing.
Thus it just happened two years ago.
Your mother knew and I knew that you were going to be born.
Those days weren't anxious ones, and as the days went by, your mother used to smile at me with those lovely brown eyes, eyes that shone with courage and resolve.
If she had anxiety in her mind, she never showed it, but it must have been there.
In my heart, in mind, torments rage that no one will ever know.
But through all the doubts, all the worries, and all the long anxious hours, an end came,
bringing with it you.
From that hour, it was early in the morning, the lives of two people were filled with inexplicable happiness.
When I called to see your mother that day, I shall never forget the beauty, the happiness that shone up at me from her precious little face.
Neither will I forget the pride and the joy that surge right through me when the nurse brought you along, and I held you in my arms.
Soon we took you home.
The months sped by and gradually took a hold in our hearts.
You laughed so much at silly things, we did to claim your attention.
You showed off to so many people, your eyes so big and questioning never failed to win admiration.
Your curly hair was indeed a special joy.
And as each month sped by you grew.
First you sat up, then stood up, then crawled, then walked.
As each stage passed, funny little incidents occurred.
Perhaps no one ever noticed them or remembered them, but your mother and I did.
Every night when I came home for work, there were stories of your conduct through the day to be told.
Some days you were good, and others you were naughty.
Like for instance, the day when a little mischievous spirit seized you,
and strips of wallpaper came from the wall.
Or the thoughts came crowding into my mind.
Memories of days gone by when we laughed that you scolded you, and some serious times when we worried over you.
The first year of your life passed quickly.
Quickly perhaps, but you grew so quickly every day, was an adventure, not only for yourself but for us.
You had a party for your first birthday, and although you sat up like Jackie, you probably will never remember it.
But that day you got Guga for a present.
Poor Guga.
As each week passed, he got dirtier and more worn.
And the dirtier he got, the more you loved him.
Then at Christmas, Teddy came along.
Dear old Teddy, so plump and with a frizzy coat.
In a few months, he was still plump, but his hair was not so frizzy.
Then you'd go to sleep.
Then you'd never go to sleep unless Teddy and Guga were tucked in with you.
You'll never know how and jelly, how like a cherub you looked.
When after your bath, you were popped into bed with your little playmates.
Indeed, God is good.
How many times have your mother and I crept in to see you sleeping?
And how many times have I wiped away tears?
Gentle little tears of happiness from her eyes when we came out.
All those days were so beautiful.
Like the night I sat and watched yesterday evening.
But soon came the rain.
Your lovely country, so free and proud, was fighting for its life.
Those indeed were dark days.
I had to leave your mother and you and become a soldier.
Thousands of other daddies went to because we had to fight.
So that all the mothers and little boys and girls could live happily.
That was many months ago.
I do not know how long it will be before we will be home again.
But rain, my little darling, does not last forever.
Through the blackest clouds, a little piece of blue appears.
The wind blows and soon the clouds go.
So too little piece come.
Then we can all be happy again.
Because I am a soldier now and I cannot attend your birthday this year.
You are going to have a party and I won't be there.
But while the party is on, I'll be thinking of you and your mother.
Thinking of the day you came along and of the days that have gone by since.
You are lovely now like your mother.
Some day when you grow up, some man is going to be lost in your loveliness.
Like I was when I fell in love with your mother.
But no matter, we cannot have you forever.
While we do, we will teach you all the lovely things in life.
And there are so many beautiful things in life.
There are two bad things.
And these also we will tell you about.
So that you will know how to pass them by.
Maybe it will be years before you will be able to read this letter.
But when you can, you will know at least how much we love you and how much you mean to us.
I am looking forward to seeing you soon.
And to seeing those big brown eyes of yours laugh back at me.
Until then, my little girl.
Goodbye.
And God bless you on your birthday.
From your adoring, data.
And data.
Soldier.
Trooper.
Father.
John Burns died in New Guinea.
On the 9th of February 1943.
A few months after that letter was written.
And when I say that war, that war brings out the worst in people.
But that it also brings out the best in people.
This is exactly what I'm talking about.
What force moved the hand of John Burns.
It was absolutely the love of his daughter.
But was that expression?
Only revealed in so pure form because of the evil that he faced.
The peril that he faced, the horror that he faced.
I think war brings out the worst in people.
But also brings out the best in people.
And I'm sorry for that.
I don't want it to be that way.
So I would ask you and I ask myself, can we free our minds?
Can we access that purity?
We can't we access that purity without the horror.
Without the imminent fear of death.
Without evil.
Can we access and can we recognize that purity?
Without war.
I do not know the answer.
But I hope.
I hope that by looking at the horror.
By looking at the hatred and the savagery and the utter lack of humanity that war unleashes.
I hope that that allows us to take one step closer.
One step closer to the purity and the beauty and the love.
The love that John Burns was able to find and express to his young daughter as he marched forward into the wretched jungle toward evil.
Towards war.
And toward death.
Let us hope.
Let us remember.
Let us learn.
Let us learn about the darkness.
So that our mind can see with the greatest of contrast.
The light.
And good.
So that.
So that we can proclaim the pure agiration and the pure love.
That be fits the divine.
The divine.
And beautiful and real living angels.
Like Anne.
That's around us every day.
Because they are here.
The angels are here.
With us.
Kind of a rough way to open things up I know.
And that's one letter from one time period in the world.
And I have no idea.
I can't even comprehend how many millions of those letters were written.
And I would say if you're not facing death, then you're not facing horror.
Still.
And that letter.
Michael Charles.
I feel like I'm listening.
I kind of gave echo ahead of this was going to be kind of harsh.
I remember when I read that letter for the first time.
But I remember just reading it thinking.
And the other thing is echo with his young daughter.
And you see, he's told me this before about like when a trossier is taking place and he's all okay.
You know, soldiers are getting killed and he doesn't get that emotional about it.
But anytime I start talking about kids getting hurt echo, he says hard time.
So he's got a beautiful young daughter and a son.
Who, what do you call a son?
What do you call him handsome?
He's too small.
Be handsome.
You can't call him beautiful because he's a boy.
He's very handsome.
Okay, we call him handsome.
I think he's very handsome.
So.
That like I said, I gave echo the heads up.
I said it was going to be harsh.
And obviously it was pretty harsh.
Yeah, I think you can't help but I mean all of this stuff like you just put yourself in the situation.
Yeah.
I told you about the time I was watching Hawaii 50.
The new one.
Not the older one.
And it just happens to be when it's in Hawaii and all this stuff.
So it's good show.
I think it's a good show.
But it's not like heavier deep.
It's a fun action show.
Doesn't it like Baywatch kind of?
Well, maybe.
But nonetheless, it's, you know, it's a Hawaii Bible crying.
They got us all the crime.
So one of them is pretty recent like few weeks ago, whatever.
There's a prom.
And one of the five old guys son is at the prom.
Terrorist take over the prom to do something, right?
Now the little conundrum is task units.
Guys son is in the prom, but they got us to go solve the crime too, you know?
But the sun's in there.
So it adds this little thing.
And then it was one of those things.
We're kind of like on the movie die hard with it.
When the terrorism thing got sprung on them, the sun was in like the bathroom or something.
So he has to kind of work along with another guy was there.
Nope, from five old to Shaperone.
They were in the bathroom.
So they had to go behind the scenes.
So it was like.
Anyway.
At the end of the day, the sun's kind of like the hero, you know?
And then he like, come on.
You can't let it away.
Five old bed.
You down like this bro.
I know man.
Did.
Uh.
Good.
I'm not laughing at you.
I'm laughing with you.
It's not going to find my way.
Yes.
I know.
I know man.
This is harsh.
It's brutal.
And you know, just so.
You know, kind of the pre recording conversation that we had is what I was saying to you is.
Hey, man, I'm going to like a lot of times on the podcast.
I kind of time to prepare for it.
So I can answer the questions because I can think about them and all this.
And I said, I'm going to ask a question.
I don't have the answer to right.
And I'm sure we'll get a lot of feedback on this as far as.
You know, does this intense, you know, war scenario make you express yourself more fully.
And basically, I asked Echo before before we started recording.
You know, we were having that conversation.
And I said, if you were going to come here, if I was going to kill you right now.
What would you say to your daughter?
What would you, if I gave you the phone said you can talk to her one more time?
What would you have you said that to her today?
Have you said it two in this week?
And I don't know.
I don't know if we do that.
I don't think we do.
I don't think we normally do because you, I mean, you're not going to go through life like that.
Then I'm not saying you need to do it every day.
But how you open up to that purity that you get when you're.
When your life is at risk and you're in the jungles of New Guinea and people are dying all around you.
And you know what your daughter's birthday coming up and you want to write her a letter.
And you know it might be the last thing she ever sees from you.
There's some.
I believe that there's some force that that moves through you and and moves your hand and moves your mind and moves your heart.
Which if you think about it, why?
Like there's a lot of subjects to have books about or to have movies about why there's so many warm movies.
Or what's that all about?
There's warm movies, you know, there's warm movies upon warm movies.
There's no, there's no other, is there another subject that there's as many movies about than war?
Right? There's not.
Is there?
I don't know.
There's a lot.
I mean, I guess you could say in general on a broad category could be like romance, but even romance movies.
There's, you know.
I mean, those are marginal at best.
I don't think you know anything about the quantity of romance movies anyway.
So really no, no guessing.
But we know that there's, to say the least, there's a lot of warm movies.
I guess there's a lot of cops and robbers movies.
But guess what?
That's the same thing.
Yeah, you got, you know, they're going to make cops and robber movies about giving out tickets for parking.
They do cop and robber movies about cops and robbers killing each other and being bad guys and all that.
Risk and the family is the family and all that.
And even, okay, here's another big genre of movies.
Mobster movies, right?
Mobster movies, a lot of mobster movies.
Well, it's not, it's not, it's always about the life and death scenarios.
That's what it's about.
So I believe there is something to that.
I don't know what it is.
But there's something that opens up your mind.
And again, I think that's why it's important to look at these things and feel these things as much as you can feel them.
So that you can have some more access in your brain to get to that part of your mind and your heart to express what's in there.
That isn't going to come out unless it's put under that kind of pressure.
Yeah.
Either that or maybe Hawaii, five oh dozen.
You never know that.
Well, time with my wife was pregnant with her first, our first kid.
And, you know, the hormones get all crazy.
She's your progesterone.
Yeah.
And so we're watching something on TV back in the day and an AT&T commercial came on.
And it was, you know, the dad was not home or something like that.
And I hear like sniffling and I look over.
There's a 30 second commercial.
You know, 14 seconds into it.
She's ball like that.
Yeah.
What is wrong with this?
She's just so sad.
I'm good.
Okay.
He never know.
I think he's come out of nowhere.
Watch like Armageddon.
I don't know if you ever seen that one bill.
Oh, oh.
Just just FYI.
I haven't seen any cheesy stupid movies or things blowing up everywhere.
Bruce Willis.
Those aren't the emotional news that I'm looking for.
Yeah.
Well, at the end Bruce Willis, same deal.
But how's this though?
He's talking to her through a camera.
And as he, you know, it's the same deal as this letter though.
He's saying, not that long and in depth.
Yeah.
That's not, you know, that is deep.
Of course.
But still same scenario because he, he has to detonate the bomb.
But the remote detonator broke.
Yeah.
So he has to do it manually and blow himself up.
Just save the world.
I mean, well, you got to tell this daughter.
Anyway, same deal, man.
You know, with this, the other thing that I, that I find interesting about this thought,
right about this thought of accessing this place, this kind of emotional place that people
get into.
And I think sometimes what happens is guys get in there.
Yeah.
And they can't get back out.
Or just, I, like, that's almost a description of combat trauma or when somebody comes back,
oh, they're so emotional.
Yeah.
It's because they're in that spot and they can't get out.
Oh, yeah.
They can't put it back in check.
They can't get control of it again.
And so I think that might be another thing for for people that are visualizing this and visualizing
and when I'm saying you want to get to that place,
you also want to be able to get back out of it.
Yeah.
You know, you don't want to get wrapped around and live in this super hyper emotional world.
And it's, it's not even emotional.
It's a purity of thought and crystalline love.
And if you get stuck in there, all of a sudden, you can't function normally.
Yeah.
And so you got to, it's good to dip into it.
It's good to see it.
It's good to feel it.
But then you got to be able to get back out of it.
And if you get stuck in there, you know, that's what happens when guys come home from
multiple combat deployments.
They're just in there.
And it comes and goes and they, they, it's like, it's damaged or something damaged, but it's just an open
access and an open wound.
Yeah.
And so you got to learn to kind of get that under control as well.
Because that's where I think that's where I think problems come in.
If you spend all your time in that area,
you're not, you're, you're off balance.
Yeah.
You got to, you got to somehow balance it.
Yeah, man.
So,
it, and this is the funny thing, just because we're here, right?
I'm gonna talk about it.
This, like, what, what you're going through right now, like, kind of a mood swing scenario.
What I was going through, what you were going through,
what, what, what, when, I remember like when, when,
all, me, Grisard died, right?
He was, he got his, my, tune.
And I talked about it when we were on the Tim Ferriss podcast.
When Tim Ferriss came on our podcast.
Yeah.
And I talked about, Gris was his nickname.
He was killed in a murder suicide.
It was horrible.
But that was the first time, like, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd, with my teammates.
And we'd be all, like, super emotional and sad, and then we'd be laughing.
Thirty seconds later.
Yeah.
And then crying again another thirty seconds later.
And then laughing a minute later.
Yeah.
And, and we'd be laughing at each other for crying.
And then, yeah.
And then crying because we were laughing, it's just, it's normal.
I believe it's normal, because I saw that with every, you know,
every death that I've experienced in the sealed teams, you know, guys.
It's, it's, it's not like you have to be sad now.
And you have to be sad for 14 days or nine days.
There's no, no, it's not like that.
You know how long you have to be sad for?
Until you feel just, just like John Burn talked about in this thing.
The sadness and the happiness comes so quickly.
Yeah.
And that's what happens when you get, you when you go through rough patches.
Or when bad things happen.
Those, those emotions will come and it's, and I just want people to know it's normal.
It's normal to, to be crying one minute.
And then laughing 30 seconds later.
Yeah.
And that's normal and it's okay because I've seen it with every death of experience.
And I mean, I know that the sealed teams is kind of, you know,
we're a little different, but I saw it with the families.
I saw it with, you know, people that weren't in the sealed teams with us.
I saw the same reactions.
Yeah.
So it's normal.
And that's even you, ten minutes ago, you were like crying and you heard me laughing.
You started laughing.
You started laughing. You started laughing.
And then as soon as you kind of got a laughter out and then all of a sudden you went right back,
you were vacillating back between the two.
And that's like I said, it's normal.
It's okay.
It's what happens when you start getting emotional about stuff.
Yeah.
Thankfully, my situation's more thinking about it.
You know, it's like I'm thinking about something bad that clear.
Yeah.
But like, but it was the same way.
If you know if something terrible did happen, you're going to feel the same way.
And it's, you know, everyone should be just expecting that.
Yeah.
And it's probably the way that we deal with it emotionally.
Man, one, my daughter had to like, like, she was, she was two.
I think almost two.
She got a staff, merciless staff infection in her lymph node.
Oh, god.
So it's like, and so, you know, we're there in the hospital for like a week, maybe two.
And there was, yeah, same deal, man, where it's like,
because she's cool with it.
You know, it doesn't really hurt or nothing.
It's just this thing.
And then you're like, man, it's just this weird roller coaster.
Like how you're saying.
Crazy.
Hey, that's part of the game, like yeah.
So let's go to some Q&A from the interwebs.
Sure.
Question number one.
Something a little bit more positive.
More like a little bit more positive.
Yeah.
And this question is actually very positive.
I like this question.
All right.
So let's rock and roll.
Here it is from the interwebs.
I am not Shakespeare.
So I cannot come up with a Facebook message that we'll express how powerful of an impact
you and Echo have had on my life.
My father died when I was 10.
And I spent the next 12 years wasting my physical and mental gifts.
You've taught me many of the lessons that I like to believe my father would have taught
me if you were alive.
Here's a brief list of my achievements over the past two years that you deserve at least
partial credit to.
Here we go.
Lost 90 pounds.
Net weight 300 from 300 pounds down to 210.
That's legit.
That's a big difference.
Yeah.
People weigh 90 pounds by the way.
Yes, a whole person.
Yeah.
Deadlift Max went from 225 to 455.
Legit.
Bench went from 185 to 315.
Excellent.
Yeah.
Started training.
Boom.
Yeah.
And boxing with friends even though there's nowhere to train where I currently live
except for the yoga room at LA Fitness.
You can make it happen in the yoga room at LA Fitness.
Let's get it on in the yoga room at LA Fitness.
That's how I'm talking about.
Like on line heart, I think they did it in the yoga.
Anyway.
That's a whole other thing.
Anyway, spent two years working at an awful job where I led from the middle and improved
the output of the entire facility while adding to my own skill set to the point where I was able to get a job.
Get a job.
I love that's awesome.
That that's awesome to be bragging about the fact that you had an awful job that you just got after it.
And look what happened.
Guess what the results are.
You get the job that you want.
The job you love.
Started at the new job last Wednesday.
So that just happened.
Boom.
Legit.
So and see, started taking class for the next job.
I want on a course era.
Must be some kind of an internet thing.
I'm halfway through the data science certification program.
Yeah, data science.
I'm currently 26 and I fully intend to get after it until the day I die.
I passed your lessons on to my younger brother who has lost 50 pounds and swings a kettlebell.
I got him every day.
When I lacked the motivation to do what needs to be done, your words ring aloud in my ears discipline equals freedom.
Thank you so much.
Okay, so my question is.
You may not reason I included this preamble of kind of what he's been you're going to hear.
But as I thought about how to answer this question,
it's good to know what the background is and what successes he's had.
That's what we kind of threw that in there.
Because it's an antrodome.
It's awesome to hear about a trooper just getting after it.
Yeah, thank numbers too.
That's the thing.
Yeah.
That's the good thing about like, you know, you can say I'm getting after it nowadays.
Good.
But now I'm dead lifting four fifty times.
Yeah, this guy is like getting after it.
Here's how.
Maybe he's all.
Okay.
Jock, you may not have this issue.
How do you avoid feeling discouraged when you realize how much of your life you wasted when you're not getting.
When you're not getting after it.
Do you ever worry that you won't achieve your full potential because you wasted time?
Well, first of all, like I said, first and foremost, congratulations.
Second.
That's just legit.
And to have made that much progress, you're obviously on the path and getting after it and what you've accomplished is awesome.
Some people never make that transition.
So stay on it.
Keep crushing it.
Now, as far as discouragement goes from not having gotten on the path earlier, and do I feel that way when I feel that way?
Negative.
Don't know.
Okay.
You were a little late getting in the game.
But I'll tell you what, twenty six years old.
Is that what we're talking about?
Twenty six.
Yeah.
At twenty six years old, you're young and you're young and a butt.
I'll tell you what.
Even if even if you were forty or fifty or sixty or seventy doesn't matter.
You're in the game now and that's what counts.
And all those quote unquote wasted years, they, they weren't wasted.
Right?
They're not wasted because you learned.
And specifically, what did he learn about?
Learned about what it's like to be out of shape.
Learned about what it's like to be overweight.
Learned about what it's like to be weak.
And the knowledge that you learned about those things is,
is fuel to make sure that it never happens again.
Because you know, you know what is out there.
And you know how bad it can get.
And this is the other reason why it's beneficial that you,
you have a past that wasn't perfect is now.
You can teach other people how to do it.
Very clearly.
You can inspire other people to do a look at what you did.
What you did to your brother.
You know, right?
It's another good example that so back in the day before anybody knew what
GJ2 was.
Back in the day.
I am the worst person to introduce GJ2 to people.
Because when they see me because I'm 225 pounds and I'm, you know, a big guy.
And they think of course this guy can choke me.
Of course, you know, they, they don't expect anything else.
So when I choke them they're like, well, yeah, you're really strong.
Yeah.
So the best people to introduce GJ2 to people is like Jeff Glover.
Right?
Who's 150 pounds?
Skinny guy.
And he comes out and choke.
Do you big strong guy?
27 times in a row.
They say, oh, maybe this stuff works.
Yeah.
Well, it's the same thing here.
People look at me.
They go, jok.
You know, jok was just hardcore.
No.
Not just me.
Look at you.
You're the one that did it.
You went through a much bigger transition than I've ever gone through
in my life.
Yeah.
So I say you embrace what you learned from the weekdays.
Let them let them make you even stronger.
And you use your own personal transformation that you've made in life.
Use that to help other people transform and get on the path as well.
That's one of that.
So good.
And there's a lot to be said to for that.
Like how he was talking.
What I think is.
How his brother lost 50 pounds.
Right?
And that's like a lot.
Like a lot of times, I feel like when people do good stuff for themselves,
and make these big changes.
Other people who see, there's kind of, there's 2PM,
I'm sure there's one, 2, but there's 2 kind of people where someone will be like,
I'll just hate.
And they'll be just jealous and they won't, you know, whatever.
But the legit people like in your life are around you are going to be like, hey, what
do you do?
Even if like, even if it's not losing it, even if it's like you're making millions of
dollars now.
They're like, like, what are you doing?
You know, you just sort of change real quick.
Like you're now you're making millions of dollars.
What do you do?
I want to do.
I want to get on that stuff, whatever you're doing.
And the workout thing, that's a big one.
So if like a lot of times like girls, the lose all this weight and now they're like
super attractive as they always wanted to be kind of
like a thing, all the other thing is, what did you do?
Oh my gosh, what did you do?
And they want to do it too.
It's like, it's almost like, almost like you can prove to other people.
You're walking beef.
Yeah, exactly.
It's good.
Yeah.
Stay on the path man.
That's awesome.
Awesome stuff.
Next.
Jockel.
How do you handle, how do you handle employee morale after terminating a popular supervisor
for cause?
Okay.
So I mean, it's kind of a rough one, but it's not something that doesn't happen.
It doesn't happen all the time because a lot of times people that are popular, they do well,
but sometimes people are popular for a long reason.
They're popular because they let people cut corners.
They're popular because they slack what?
Um, what is it for cause?
Just, meaning they, they weren't efficient in their job.
It's, it's you, you failed.
Okay.
Basically, you're not up to par.
And so people sometimes popular people pop their supervisors.
Yeah, like I said, sometimes they're they're popular because they do great.
Great leaders, but a lot of times they're popular because they let people get away with
Mercer.
Yeah.
And so when you figure that out, that the person's not doing their job and not a good leader, then you
got to fire them.
I mean, you've tried to cancel them all that stuff, but now you got to fire them.
So how are you going to get through that?
Well, for one thing.
The number one thing you got to do is explain why T to the people to the troops.
You got to explain why this person is being removed and just, you know, just like we just kind of learned from
the opening piece about being direct and not avoiding the conversation, have the conversation, be straightforward.
And now, now this is a key piece.
Don't be disparaging of the person that's getting fired, right?
That guy was a dirt bag on you know, you because these people are, you know, some of them have relationship with them.
And so you don't want to just immediately create animosity, but you do have to be straightforward.
You do have to say, look, we had standards here.
He was out of bounds on these things right here and we just can't do that in this company.
We got to hold the line.
You know, there's ethical reasons.
There's legal reasons or whatever the case may be.
So that's that.
The other thing is you got to inspire some conversation.
You got to inspire some questions.
So they're, so that they can, because you're trying to close the gap with a relationship, right?
You fired somebody and now there's a gap, a relationship gap.
Because that person that you fired is the relationship between, they connect the relationship between this, his subordinates and you.
So now there's a gap in the relationship.
So you got to fill that gap.
So you've got to start getting the conversations going, talking to them, getting them,
just like I said, closing the gap in the relationship.
The other thing is you got to explain what the follow-on plan is very clearly.
And you got to introduce whoever's taking their place.
You got to introduce them.
I mean, immediately they got to be ready to rock and roll.
They got to be ready and they, you have to count to them on like, hey, you're, you know what I'm putting you in here?
Be a leader. Yes, run this job site.
Yes, I need you to build these relationships with these guys.
You're now taking over relationship.
You're taking over boss.
Yes, but you're taking over the relationships that he had.
Now here's what you got to do to do it.
You got to go and you got to be humble.
You got to ask questions.
You're all the standard leadership stuff.
But you got to get them focused in the right area.
You also got to, you also got to make sure who's ever coming in and take their place.
Make sure that they understand what the political terrain is, which guys were boys,
with the guy you fired, which guys didn't like them anyway.
So you got to explain all that to him.
So they understand what's going on.
And the last thing I'll say on this is,
you'll find that oftentimes somebody that you think is mission critical,
they're actually not mission critical.
They're not as mission critical as they think they are.
And they're not as mission critical as you think they are.
And others, when someone is doing a bad job or someone is not a good leader,
the other people, even though there might be buddy buddy with them,
they know it and they know they should be removed.
And when you do it, a lot of times the respect level goes up.
So that means the other people that are in that position will,
or the support, it's a lot of them are ready to step up too.
They're ready, they think it's going to take you forever to fire this guy.
I mean, we were doing what we got to do and he's popular and everything.
He's nice, but we see where it's coming from.
So have confidence when you do it, you know,
be be, be thoughtful.
But when you make the decision and you know it's the right thing to do,
do it, get that other leader ready to rock and roll,
explain everything very clearly, explain why you're doing it,
and build, fill that gap in relationships that now it's going to exist.
When you say mission critical, what does that mean?
Meaning without this guy,
the mission is going to fail.
Yeah.
If Echo wasn't here for the podcast, we wouldn't be able to do it.
Yeah, so like I know actually we would.
No, I'm trying some other guy.
I'd be like, hey, can you press record on this machine over here?
And someone would say, yeah, it's a cool.
And then I'd say, do it.
And I'd say, well, do you know how to make YouTube videos?
Because that would be an addition.
Since Echo doesn't do much of that,
you maybe you could help with that.
No, the mission critical just means a guy that,
and this happens is, you see the technology companies where you got some guy that's really in the code.
Yeah.
And then anybody else?
And so if I leave, no one's going to understand what I built.
Well, first of all, you did a bad job if no one's going to understand what you built.
But, but yeah, I need to even have to succeed with construction.
When a building, if you're building something more complex,
like all of a sudden, you have one guy that really understands the details.
And it can be hard because everyone thinks,
if we lose him, he's the only guy that knows how to do XYZ.
So people freak out about it.
Yeah.
We'll seem like that's more of a comfort zone thing.
Of course, if that's a comfort zone, it's a definite comfort zone.
You know what I actually can say?
I don't think I've ever, I'm trying to think.
I don't think I've seen it yet, where the mission critical guy got fired and things fell upon.
Yeah.
I don't think I've seen it.
No, I haven't seen it.
Maybe someone will happen one day.
Maybe.
All right.
Next question.
Squish.
I started working for a new company about four months ago, although,
although new to this particular field, my previous experience in skill set directly applies to the work I do now.
I'm assigned to work with an experience quote unquote mentor who has me do busy work
or tasks that are well beneath my capabilities,
leaving me feeling underutilized for the more when I see the quality of work this person
executes.
I'm confident I could upperform him.
And yet he treats me like an idiot, where a new quote of newbie.
He also milks the clock disappearing for long stretches at a time and spending a lot of time on his phone.
To further complicate matters, he's well connected to our upper management.
What is the best course of action if my goal is to get noticed as someone who can perform the quality work that our clients demand?
Best course of action?
Perform the quality work that the client demand, that that's the best course of action.
That's it.
Warm card.
Over deliver.
Get after it.
That's the number one thing you can do.
Now, that you got an opportunity here.
If you have a human heart that you use.
your your mentor disappears for long stretches. Good. Let him go. Take a long lunch boss.
I got it. Oh, you want to find these meaty little tasks. Well, eventually he if he's going to take all these breaks, then he's going to have you do the the more meaning for work.
So that's fine. Um, you, you can do better work than him. Good. That's going to be fine. That's going to show through eventually.
He's well connected up the chain of command. Beautiful. Beautiful.
Because if you can now build a relationship with him, you're going to be well connected to.
And that's going to be the hardest part, right? The heart. That's going to be hard to do. And it's especially hard to do because your attitude right now is negative.
Right. You're attitude right now is negative. It's a little ego kicking in. I can do better than him.
He's I'm under the utilized. He's his he does things are he's making me do things beneath my capabilities. Those are all just ego. It's fine.
We, you go as a good. You go. It's got a lot of positive. See what they just what's driving you to want to do better. So it's okay.
But you're going to have to overcome that in this scenario in order to build a relationship with this guy.
Man, I built relationships with guys that I hated. You know, I mean, because guess what? Does that make me too face? No, you know what? It's my job. I'm a professional.
I am a professional. I guarantee you. You coming to work with me. You will see. I am a professional. And yet I will build relationships. So not and yet, but so that means my job and my professionalism is more important than my ego.
And my, and my, my, my, my, my creativity of other people, right? I'm not looking down on him going on. So because what I want to do is build a good relationship. So when we build that good relationship with him. Now he's if he's well connected with the folks up top. They're like, oh, what's up with Billy.
Oh, Billy's good to go man. He's doing a great job. Now what if you're like with the thing that the other, so what you got to be careful of what you don't want to do is create an antagonistic relationship with him. And that includes threatening him with your
work ethic, threatening him with your performance level, threatening him with your skills. So you almost have to throttle back just a little bit enough that he's not threatened. Now the other thing you could do instead of throttling back is what you do is you give him the credit.
And now he's like a pumped. He's not looking, you become you build the relationship. That's what we want to do. We want to build a relationship. And we want to put your ego and check do the little,
let me tell you all this. This temporary, you will rise top if you do it right, you will rise the top. If you screw it up, you'll never rise. If you create an antagonistic relationship with him, you will not promote. You will not if you do it right, you will end up above him in the chain of command. It will take time. It will take swallowing of pride.
But it will happen. It might take five years. It might take seven years. It might take nine months. I don't know.
But that's what you have to do to make it happen. And have fun doing it. If you're going to go crazy every day, if it's hurt you so bad, I make a game out of it.
I mean, I'm going to make a total game out of it. Where my goal is to build this relationship with this guy. I'm going to make a game out of it. We're going to have fun with it. I'm not going to be angry when I come home for more than a car. I can't believe I had to shake his hand now.
I'm going to come back like, you know what, hey, talk to my wife. Was a, hey, guess what?
He actually bought me lunch today. And we were laughing about the football game. I don't even like football. You know what I'm going to, I'm going to build that. And I'm going to win.
And in the long run, you're guaranteed to win if you can play that game. So again, everyone thinks it's going to be like, you just not me because I was in the military. You just not meet the standards. What you do is you smash him and report him up the chain of command. Oh, that good luck with that. You have this guy as well connected in his relationship with everyone. They're going to go, you let's shut up new guy.
Because you're actually proving not only you're actually proving when you do this, you're actually proving that you're not a good leader and that you're, you can't put your ego in check. You're proving that you can't work with some people.
When you that guy.
Oh, jocco he.
Jocco can't work with anybody.
Jocco's really good as long as you're working with his team. So what, what does that mean? You have means you're confined for the rest of your life of only working with your team.
Whereas if it's hey, jocco's good to go, he can work with anybody. Oh, he worked with Bill who's an ego maniac and he worked with Mike who's a lazy bastard.
Guess what? Doesn't matter where you put jocco. He's going to get it done. Okay, cool. That's the attitude we want people to have about us.
Yeah, then what even that is like, and it's it's an art, you know, of course it is.
You're like, you're kind of balancing because you want to be like disingenuous or like or fake to the point where they know like all this is fake. Oh, yeah, you just like that balance. And you know how you do that.
You don't be fake right? You're not just trying to, I'm not see this is the thing. I'm not trying to build a relationship with echo so that I can get promoted.
That will be obvious. I'm trying to build a relationship with you because it's going to make our team better and it's going to make us do a better job and it's going to benefit everyone at the company and at the team.
That's why I'm trying to do it. I'm not trying to do it so I can get ahead.
If you're not kind of snake, well, then you're just as bad as the other guy. You're just one of those guys that's trying to get ahead. No, what you're doing is you're doing it for the benefit of the team.
I wasn't forming relationships with people so I could get promoted. I was forming relationships with people so that we could do better jobs. So I could get gear for the platoon.
So I could get support from some, you know, supply guy.
Oh, yeah, what's up, buddy? I'm not doing it disingenuously. I actually want to be bros with them. So he knows what we got and who knows what we need.
Nothing didn't disingenuous about that. I'll talk about football. Maybe that's a little disingenuous. You know, well, yeah, if you say you like, you don't mean yeah, but that kind of seems like it's superficial.
But you know what, you know, you're so into football and we're working together. I'm going to actually try and figure out like I want to know why you're so into it, man. Tell me about it.
You know, what's so like, like explain that to me. You got 300 pound guys that can run 40 out 40 yards and like seconds. That's impressive. Let me learn about that. Let's get into the game.
Nothing wrong with that. Not disingenuous.
300 pound guy running a 40 in five point. Oh or less is officially impressive. Yeah, five point or less. 300 pound. If you're 185, even two out. He's 200 pounds.
Four, four, four, four, four, four in less. What'd you do for 47? It's a little less impressive. It's I mean for college. It's good. I mean, especially back in.
Now days guys are fine. It's different now. And it was a long ago. Yeah. Anyway. Next question. Next question.
This question is from an army vet that was in Ramadi in 2004. Yeah. He noted that to me. Yeah, which is good to hear. Yeah. Some contact your fans. Yeah.
Just started jujitsu boom. I'm a very, I'm a very step action drill oriented guy. I blame the field artillery officer basic course.
Today, while training and instructor was talking to me about the flow and creativity and improvisation that is needed. I'm assuming it comes with time.
Any ideas? I'm helping to get that way or sorry. Any ideas unhelping to get away from the step action drill mindset? We're just letting it come.
Yeah. That's great. And I know you've seen people like this in the Jets. I see him all the time. It's people that have the personality that is like an engineer personality.
Okay. What do I do? Step one? Step two? Step three? Step four? What do you tell me the steps?
I'll quit all this conceptual stuff. Tell me the steps to do. And actually, Higgs was just Jeff Higgs. He was describing a guy that we trained with.
And the way he described this scenario, he's talking about the specific guy who kind of fits this mold.
He was this guy was coming to train with us and going to be one of our students in Higgs goes, yeah, you know, he's really good. He's got, you know, he trained super hard. He's strong.
And he's got a very stubborn Jetsu mind which I got a kick out of. And it's true. But it's this kind of thing where, you know, you just want to know the steps and you just want to apply him. And by the way, if you want to teach about options.
Tell me what the options are then, you know, option one one A one B one C they want to have that mindset for everything. So.
That stops you right. We we want to get beyond that. We want to get to it's just like a person playing a musical instrument. You can teach them all the notes.
But they need to figure out how to play music, right? They need to figure out how to create music. That's a difference. I always say this when, um, if you go to a guitar center, which is a guitar store in America, and you put up a sign that says, you know, I need someone that can play the following 27 albums note for note.
You'll get you'll get a hundred phone calls if you put a website to say that because you're going to record an album or never. But of all those people, not all of them can create a musical song that is original and good and all that. So there's the difference, right? This is the difference between like a normal Jetsu player who's by the book and, and then, you know, a person that creates the top level guys that are creating new moves all the time.
So that's what we want to become. And it's not just to be a top level guy. It's also to be, it's also how you improve. It's how you get better. You got to figure out how to match the how to put the notes of Jetsu together.
So, and on top of that, it's the same thing with combat. It's the same thing with doing an assault. It's the same thing within immediate action drill. It's the same thing with moving down a hallway. If all you know and all you can do in your brain is follow the steps and follow the standard operating procedures as much as I talk about standard operating procedures being necessary and mandatory.
If all you know how to do is follow them, you will fall short and you will come into a situation where they're not going to work and now you're going to be done. You're going to stop. You're not going to want to do.
That happens to you to all the time. So we need to free our mind. That's what we need to do. We need to free your mind. And how do you do that? Well, first of all, discipline equals freedom.
So we want to have the disciplines. Means we do need to drill the moves. It means we do need to learn the moves. It means we do need to repeat them over and over again so that we get good at them. We do need to do that. But then we've got to set the mind free and how do you do that. I mean.
Go outside of your comfort zone for one and a lot of guys, everyone does this where you say, you know what man, I'm getting everyone in this one move. I'm going to stop doing it. I'm going to do another move. I'm not going to do 18 anyone for two months. You know, I'm not going to come to your echo.
Yeah, you know, you're going to do it. Yeah. So go outside your comfort zone work on some that work on some move that you don't do throw out your best submission and don't use it. So now you've got to be going through all these different different we got to go for different moves. You got to get creative. Same thing with hitting.
You're moving from different positions that were supposed to work. Like for instance, you just talked about the G. T. I'm a fan of the G. T. But I do G. T. T. I'm in weird places. I mean, I have people tap out to my G. T. When I'm when we're in weird positions that no you like no one's ever been tapped out and they're like, I don't know how I just got to tap out. How did you do that? How did you do that? I was, you know, across the side and I was, yeah, you were, but I had this going on.
So try your move from different positions random positions. Do try things that shouldn't work to try and move that's a top move, try from the bottom.
Try moving that's a move from the bottom, try from the top, try from the side, try from cross side, try from butterfly guard try these different moves and you'll start to create more.
The other thing that will for your mind is when you stop worrying about tapping people out and getting tapped out. We're about progress. We're about creativity. Try and be more creative.
And if all you're worried about is not tapping out, your progress is going to be slow. And if all you're worried about is tapping the other guy out, your progress is going to be slow.
So that's it. And I will actually one more thing I would say, there's a kind of a dichotomy here in the one side you want to be able to turn your brain completely off and just do whatever happens.
And at the same time you want to force your mind to make yourself do particular moves, right?
So go in one of those. If you're going to think, think about new moves or turn your brain completely off and let things happen as they come.
And then for your mind, the old turning your brain off and letting the moves kind of, it's almost like you're letting the move happen on its own kind of thing.
That comes with time more and more. When you first start that's probably not really going to happen much.
And also, like an example of that is if you were teaching a class and you said, hey, Jockel, come here and you know, I'm going to do this sweep on you and you do the sweep and like I would defend it immediately.
And I'm sorry, man. And I'd have to sit there not defend the moves that you could show the sweep.
You seem to say, like, it's in complete instinct for me to stop that move or to complete instinct for me to grab your hand or stop you know, so that's the way that's the way it works. You want that.
Yeah, you want it to be an instinct. You want all you're most to be instinctual because if you have to think about them in real situations.
If the other person is good, then you have to think about what you're going to do. You're going to lose.
Yeah, because they're not thinking they're getting that quarter second. It takes a quarter second to process.
When we said, shooting pistols, it takes a quarter second for you to see the target a quarter second to get to your whole certain quarter second to get to go down and get the shot out. The three quarters of a second.
So if you all you had to do is just drawn shoot, you'd go quarter seconds gone or if you have the gun in your hand or quarter seconds gone.
So actually Greg Train, you did that the other day and I thought about that. That's why this is fresh in my mind.
Like he grabbed my hand real quick and I was like, oh, he did that sort of like, I used to go for my whole story because you can go as fast as you possibly can to your holster. Once you get to your holster, you got to slow down.
You can go so fast to your holster. That's why I used to make up so much. You know, it's fast as I could. My whole story then again, and then once you get there, you got to slow down. You got to get front side focus.
But Greg Train moved that fast trying to grab my hand like that. And I was like, I'm going to start doing that.
Those are doing that again. Do little speed work on him.
Yeah, so yeah, free your mind. Back to the point here and thanks for your service.
Yeah, that way of learning. I think it's it's actually pretty prevalent when you first start because you don't know, you don't know the move.
You don't know why it works. You know that it works because your teacher is teaching it to you, but you didn't know like why it works. So say, all right, just show me.
Tell me this step to do it. You walk through it. You learn another movie. Learn this movie. You learn, you know, he refines your technique. You go roll.
You find out, okay, that doesn't work when I do it this way or you don't know why it doesn't work. So you get asked.
And I'm the kind of learner that I will I actually the first thing I want to know is how does this work. Yeah, I want to know that before I know even the steps.
Yeah, and a lot of times I teach that way. I'm teaching like here's the concept of what we're trying to make happen.
Yeah, we're trying to get their weight over here. So here's how we're going to get their weight over there. Now, once we get their weight over there, and it's easy to say, hey, I'm not going to do this slip your hips here and you're going to be on their back or whatever the case may be.
But for me, the concept of what you're trying to make happen is what I like to think about and it's what I like to teach. And that's the same thing with combat. You know, there's moves that you're going to do on the battlefield.
But conceptually, what are you trying to make happen? You know, cover and move is cover and move is the most simple one. You can cover and move an infinite number of ways.
But if you don't cover and move, you're going to die. And as long as you have one of those millions of different ways of covering and moving, and I like some guys would get really particular in my when I was running training guys, but you can't do that.
And I would say, well, what did they do that you didn't like? Well, you know, he, he should have gone. He should have moved first. Well, did the other guy cover him? Well, yeah, well, why should the other guy have gone first? Well, that's the way we taught him.
Okay, well, does it make sense? Can you give me a reason? Not really. Are they covering and moving? Yes. All right. I think they're good. Yeah, you're right. They probably are.
So yeah, yeah, that's, it goes along too very much. It seems like anyway, what you're saying about telling people why they're doing what they're doing.
Yes. So it's essentially the same thing in your jitz or your right, because if you just say grab their arm and pull it into your, you know, neck. So you can sweep them.
But what you really want to tell them is like, listen, they're going to put their hand out here for base for balance.
So what you want to do is you want to be ready to move it or move it and you only have to get it to you only have to take their base away for a quarter second. You know, I say that a lot. I say that a lot. Like people in jitz who they try and move.
They try and they try and affect the other person's body for an extended period of time for 10 seconds for 12 seconds. They try and bring the hand into them so they can sweep them and they hold it there for five seconds.
I'm going to hold it for a quarter second because that's all it takes for a sweep to happen. It's all it takes for an arm lock to happen. That's all it takes for a geetting to happen is that one quarter second. It's in quarter second is all you're trying to do. And once you want you are winning quarter second quarter second, you're one.
But again, I do feel like that. I mean, it's probably what I'm imagining. It's a spectrum with learning jitz who like, you know, I say some guys they just tend to learn that way. And then some guys tend to learn the other way.
Yeah, both ways is fine. And I think in the beginning, I know, was for me and most people that I've seen in the beginning, you just tend to learn that way. Show me this stuff. You don't know everything. You don't know.
And even me, I mean, I'm the, I'm I'm probably pretty fond of the extreme spectrum of let me understand the concept.
And plus your advance though, I think no, no, I was beginning. Oh, in the beginning even I was like, okay, how is this working? I was like, show me how to do that was thinking how did that happen? How why am I tapping right now?
Yeah, how can I not move? You know, that's what I was thinking. I wasn't thinking show me the movement. I was thinking, what is going on?
Right. Yeah. Yeah. And there's, and there's actually high level guys you can tell by the way that they teach or the way that they, yeah, by the way that they teach or train, you can tell that there's high level guys on both sides.
There's high level guys that are like, like, for instance, guys that drill all the time, those are the guys that are mechanical.
And they're all working wrong with it. They win world champions championships. So with that. And then there's guys that don't drill, but they roll like crazy. And their games will reflect that Jeff Glover Jeff Glover Dean, Lister, same thing.
You don't see those guys doing a lot of drilling. It's not that they never do it, but if you compare them to let's say, who's a world champion? I mean, even Galvao Galvao's a driller. He just will drill.
And at least for what I've seen, you know, for what I've seen in videos of him training, he's working to move. And you're like, okay, that's awesome.
Guys dominate, dominate. Fantastic, you're juicer. Yeah, and I think at the end when you become that good, even if that's your primarily method of learning or training or whatever, I think when you gain ultimately like the understanding of, okay, I see why this is important to do this or important not to do this, whatever.
Even if you are a cool and cool and cool driller, the creativity part is it's almost like it's uncontainable. It'll all be like, even like Galvao were they do drill a lot.
You know what I was like, maybe I wasn't thinking, who made the DVD that was literally called drill to win?
There's like one, somebody that's really good made a drill to win, right? So that's the kind of attitude I'm talking about again, that's how you get better.
Right drilling drilling drilling and what the thing is to respond to what you just said is fact discipline equals freedom.
If you drill and drill and drill and you make those moves so natural, then you're going to free your going to get them from all over the place.
So you're right, the end state is going to be the same, but there's going to be people on all lens of that learning spectrum and training spectrum.
They're going to be all over the place. And some people like like, I don't like to drill, don't enjoy it.
Maybe I did it at some point, don't remember, but I would rather roll.
Yeah, I think a lot of, again, it went in the beginning, it seems like what kind of learner you are is going to show itself.
Way more. Oh yeah, for sure. It's far as even for friends and how you pick things up. And a lot goes with the fact that there's a lot too pick up when you begin.
You know, there's so much to learn. So you're like, well, you absolutely have to drill.
I mean, I hope no one's listening me going, well, jogger does really slow.
No, you have to drill when you start off. You have to, you have to learn the body mechanics of it.
So, yeah, I am talking about a more advanced stage.
And I think ultimately, just like how you said though, I think that in time, once you start learning the moves and as given the fact that you are rolling them, you know how some people they'll learn the move, then they'll go home.
Oh yeah, it's very good.
Yeah, it's very good.
But when you learn whatever this guard pass to the arm bar combo, right, and you know the steps and grab here, put your knee here, whatever.
The guys you're training partner, your partner for the drill or whatever is, you know, he's letting you do it.
You become a 10 out of 10 in the drill. You get so good at that drill, you're 10 out of 10. When you go to a blind for real, you're still going to fail.
Yes, exactly.
Right. Because you don't know all these dynamic variables coming at you.
So that's when you gain the understanding.
Yes.
That's when more questions are going to pop up. Okay, that need to be answered.
You answer them and boom, there's your learning right there.
So the drill is good. Yeah, for the body mechanics, especially at the beginning, because you don't know.
You don't like, you're talking about your, all your hands, arms, legs, hips, head, everything.
On position, well, what's even more critical than those things, because all those things are visible, you, you can see them.
The things that are harder to teach and to understand is the weight distribution.
And the balance distribution. Those are the things that you can't, you cannot see.
And there's also one more, which is the tension distribution. Because when I'm pulling on your arm, when I grab your wrist, when I'm holding your wrist,
I could be putting tension in 360 degrees. Right? And if I'm holding your wrist, I could be moving it.
I could be putting tension. Now, we no one could tell which way I'm putting pushing or pulling or lifting or dragging.
No one can tell because your arm is moving.
Right.
But the tension, you can't see the balance, you can't see and the, and the, the weight distribution.
You can't see any of those things and that's why it's very hard to teach him.
Yeah. And really the only way. And again, back to this thing. It comes with time.
It's when you roll live with someone. Then you're going to see all these different subtle different scenarios, where the stuff you learned.
Dean was teaching an arm lock the other day. You know, like a basic arm lock, which I've probably sat there in the class of his been his been his dummy a thousand times.
And like somebody asked a question, and then he was doing the arm lock to me.
And I realized something that he was doing that I never noticed before. And it's, it's he's pulling the arm towards his head basically pulling it towards his head.
Yeah. And I mean in a pretty extreme way.
And I realized how incredibly effective it was.
It's, it wasn't holding it. He's pulling it. It was.
And so like those little things like that. I've, I've been his dummy and maybe you know, just because he always being his dummy,
he didn't, he didn't remember or didn't think about doing that step. But the way the question got asked and, and even when he's arm lock me thousands of times, he, you know, I didn't notice it. You know, I just thought man, he's got a tight arm lock.
Right.
But it's like, okay, that was the detail. And I never, you could watch him do that move to me a thousand times or anyone else a thousand times.
Then you wouldn't be able to know that detail unless either he told it to you or you felt it. And there's, that's the thing that's crazy about the Gitu. There's all kinds of little little aspects like that balance weight and tension that you just can't, you can't see visually. You can feel him.
But even if I say, hey, echo, actually you can't feel all of it because you can't feel where I'm putting my weight if I'm putting my weight into the mat.
You can't feel if I'm heavy over here. You can't feel that. You don't know where I'm having. You just know what I feel heavy, but where's my weight going to be? Now if I'm my weight is on you, you can feel it.
Yeah, man.
That's the Gitu.
All right. Before we have just a Gitu podcast.
Yeah.
Next question.
Draco, when it comes to leading up the chain, what do you do when your goals aren't seeming to align? Example, making money versus having an impact.
Okay.
This is the deal here. The goals have to align.
They have to align and furthermore, they will align.
That is, now you might have to go pretty high up the chain to make this happen or you might have to dig pretty hard to make that happen.
But this is a great example.
The example is making money versus making an impact.
And I'm going to tell you that those two actually align.
How do they align? Well, let me explain.
If your company makes more money, they will have a bigger impact.
Right? They will have a bigger impact.
So let me break it down a little bit.
So if you want to have a big impact on a client.
Right? And so what you do is you spend so much time and so much money with that client or with that customer.
You're going to realize that the company, if you invest that much to a client or to a customer, you invest that much time in that much money, your company is going to go out of business.
Now how much impact are you having to put that into that client? The answer is zero.
Now sometimes the opposite happens.
And this is probably what the question is related to.
For instance, if we as a company, we start cutting corners on quality.
We start cutting corners on customer service.
Or whatever the case may be, we might make more money in the short term.
Oh, like to save money.
Yeah, we save money.
You know what, we're supposed to have 10 people answering phones. We're going to fire six of them. We're going to have four left.
That means everyone's waiting on the phone.
So when we don't have good customer service, now we're starting to write a Yelp review.
I was on hold for 14 hours.
I hate this company, right? This happens.
This is what happens. This is the example.
So now up the chain of command.
So before it was look, we need 30 people in the call center to answer the phone.
And that way everybody gets an answer within 30 seconds when they call in and what customer calls in.
Okay, we're out of business in a month because we can't afford 30 people.
So now we have no impact.
The other end of the spectrum is we have three people in the call center responding to phone calls.
We everyone has to wait now or now no one, everyone hates our company.
We also have no impact.
So the, the, the goals have to be aligned at some case.
And but the thing is it is a balancing act.
It's between expenditures for the cost to produce or the customer service.
And you've got to keep that as low as possible.
So that money is made, but you can't go so low that quality and customer service and follow on business and customer relations.
You can't go so low that it gets destroyed.
And so you as a, as a worker need to realize that your higher ups are trying to balance that.
And they're saying, hey, you can't dedicate your life.
Hey, you can't dedicate this much time or you can't dedicate that much time echo you need to spend it too much time with each client.
You need to get three more clients.
Well, I can't give them the impact that I want.
I can't give them the focus.
Okay, can you handle one more client?
Yeah, I could probably do that.
Okay, we're finding the balance that the new and other good restaurant business, right?
Restaurant business is a really easy simple one to understand because the quality of the food that we get and the quality of the, the, the, the chefs that we have.
The more it costs to buy the food, the good food and the higher quality chef and cook and help we have, the better the food's going to be.
Well, all that stuff costs more money.
So you got to find the, if you, you have a restaurant where the best hamburger in the world, it's $84.
You're not going to have a line at that place.
You, you have impact because you're having the best burger in America.
Guess what?
You're not going to be a business to have that your impact is going to be zero.
You're going to have that other side of the spectrum.
Salmonel a poised because you're, because you're buying cheap stuff.
You've cut, you know, refrigeration costs and, and that's what you're going out of business too.
So the goals are aligned at the end of the day because profit equals growth.
Growth equals impact.
Now, you know, are there ethical times where someone says, hey, we're screwing over company.
Yeah, absolutely.
So the first thing that I've got to do is to make a barcode had to had a, a plague of that type of behavior.
And it was rampant throughout the whole company.
Guess where they're at now?
They're hurting.
They made a bunch of money in the short term.
But guess what?
Now, they're not trusted.
So they got to do some recuperation.
But that's a classic example.
Someone from Wells Fargo might have asked this question.
You know, a year ago before the story broke and said, hey,
we're in a positive here and the company, my goal is on a line with the company.
And he would have been right and he should have raised his hand because what he could have said was, hey, bosses.
If we keep this up, we're going to lose the trust and confidence of the public.
And we're going to be hurting.
And the, you would have been correct.
So you had to find that balance.
But just remember that even though the goals might not seem aligned, they are aligned in the end.
They need to be, not saying they always are.
But if they're not aligned in the end, you're going to, you're probably going to go out of business.
Because you just cut a swath of mayhem.
You've, you've destroyed your customers or either few high prices or by low service.
One of those two things going to happen if you don't find the dichotomy, the balance, not even dichotomy, the balance.
You got to find the balance.
Yeah.
Next question.
What is your next book about?
Well, the cat is out of the bag essentially now.
So because the book is available on Amazon right now,
it's called the way of the warrior kid.
And yes, it is a kid's book.
But I am telling you, I'm telling you, I've got, this, this is, this book is going to, there's going to be a lot more people than just kids that learned from this book myself included.
So, um, and you know, it's a part of its stem, I had it in the bank for a while.
But one of the things that happened is we talked about the jockel academy on this podcast.
Hey, what if you ran, somebody asked me the question, great question.
If you ran a academy for kids, what would you teach?
And I kind of went through what that would be like.
And what was cool was when that podcast came out, so many people reached out to me and said,
you got to do this, this would be awesome and we actually are working behind the scenes slowly to get something moving in that direction.
But I realized, you know, forming a school the way I want to make it, forming a academy the way I want it to be.
It's a, it's a big effort. It's a big financial effort.
But how do we help kids in the meantime, right?
How do we help kids in the meantime? Well, I realized what I could do is write a book.
Or finish this book that I had the idea for. So that's what I did hammered it out.
And this is the story. It's, it's about a kid.
Kid, name is Mark. And when the story opens up, he's just kind of finishing his, his last couple days of school.
And he's having a rough time.
He's having a rough time because he's,
well, first of all, he can't do any pull ups, which may not seem like a big deal, but guess what?
In his school, they have little, physical P.E. tests and one of the things they got to do is pull up.
And so the last day of school, they, you know, they feel, they feel day and Hawaii.
So they have field day. So he's just one of the events they do.
It's pull up. Somebody pull up. It's going to everyone do.
He's hiding in the back.
Trying to hide. He doesn't want to do the pull up.
There, but guess what? He gets called out. So everybody knows confirmed. They knew before.
Some of the, I was confirmed he can't. He doesn't that kid can't do any pull ups.
Class field trip. Guess where they go.
They go to a pond. They go to a lake and they go swimming.
Real fun.
If you know how to swim. Mark doesn't know how to swim.
So he's, and now they know that too.
Not only that on top of that,
it doesn't know his time stables. What six times six don't know.
So on top of all that, he's getting bullied.
He's getting bullied by big Kenny Williams and big bully.
Who, who calls himself, he calls himself the king of the jungle.
Because the jungle gym in the school yard.
Yeah.
It's a great, got it.
So horrible last day of school gets picked on all that stuff.
And when he comes home, he's reminded by his mom that his uncle,
Uncle Jake, who is in the seal teams?
Of course. He's getting out of the seal teams.
He's going to be going to college after the summer.
So this summer, he's staying with Mark.
And that's what happens. So Uncle Jake,
you know, he kind of hears all these issues that he's having.
All these problems. And you can imagine what Uncle Jake said.
Uncle Jake said good.
You got problems. Those are the problems kind of problems we can solve right there.
We can take care of you. Can't do polips? No problem.
What do we do? We work out.
Oh, you don't know your time stables. What do you do?
Study. Let me teach you how to study.
Let me show you about flash cards.
Let me show you how to get in the game academically.
Oh, you don't know how to swim? Guess what?
You're going to learn how to swim.
Oh, and you, and you're getting picked on.
How do we stop that real easy?
Little something called dugetz here.
Of course.
So that's what happens.
The Uncle Jake shows Mark how to be.
He's said of a winpy kid. How to be a warrior kid.
And.
Teaching him how to be stronger and smarter and better.
And it also, you know, he learns about humility.
He learns about respect.
He learns about courage and determination.
And you know.
I wish that I had this book when I was a kid.
Because.
I think it's going to be helpful.
I think it's to be helpful.
And that's what that's what I'm hoping for.
I'm hoping to have an impact on some people's lives.
And I hope that I hope that it allows, you know, parents and kids to get closer together.
And.
You know, as I was.
You know, I normally take a question for kind of like closing.
And.
You know, I, I usually try and pick a question that's going to be, um,
you know, it's going to be impactful, right?
Mm-hmm.
And honestly.
I mean, when I was preparing for this podcast and I was doing the first couple.
Letters that I read.
I was just at a point where.
I didn't think I'd be able to step it up any further.
And.
So I just wanted to.
Think about that.
You know, you think about.
John Burns and his daughter.
And.
Makes me hope that.
This can bring.
People together.
Bring parents closer to their kids.
And help their kids.
Move down the right path in life.
Because.
No matter what you think about.
Life.
And the afterlife.
And immortality.
And whether you believe that or not.
One thing I do know.
Is the one thing that you do leave behind.
Is your kids.
So let's give them.
The best we can.
And get them prepared for life.
And get them prepared.
For the sunny days.
And the sparkling skies filled with stars.
And let's also get them ready.
For the challenges.
And the bullies.
And the darkness.
So that they can.
Survive.
And thrive.
And pass that strength.
Of character.
On down the line.
And I think that's.
I don't all love God for tonight.
So.
Echo Charles.
I know it's been a little bit of a rough night for you too.
I apologize.
But.
Maybe.
Maybe when you get home tonight.
You give your beautiful daughter a little extra hug.
And you plan a kiss on this forehead of your son.
And before you do that.
Maybe you could tell everyone how they might be able to support this podcast.
If they so does our.
Before I go too deep into that.
Let me I got it.
I got it.
It meant something.
But it's going to be relevant to me.
I worked out because a lot of people in the world just went.
I worked out.
I worked out today.
But this is the admission part.
I drank some last night.
Why?
Just you know sometimes when you.
Yeah, ultimately.
But it's one of these things where was it some kind of a celebration?
No, it was.
I was just working.
And you know the kind of you drink a little bit.
You kind of get into it.
And then I'm all shoot.
Let me drink some more and more into it.
Anyway, just one of those deals.
Anyway, nonetheless.
We ended up not getting that much sleep and drinking.
But I'm like, no, I committed to working out today.
You held the line.
Helped the line.
Yeah, fully.
So, and we're going back to that pre workout stuff.
Total performance.
I think it's called on it.
Anyway, the pre workout stuff.
So I'm like, all right.
Now we're going to.
We're going to see how this works under Dress.
If you will.
Same.
Anyway, took it.
Okay.
So we're going to work out.
Boom.
Same pop.
That pop I was talking about last time was there.
People mentioned the pop.
Yeah.
The pop is real.
Anyway.
So the moral to that story is.
So are you telling everyone they can drink?
And as long as they have some of this, they'll be good to go.
Was that I don't want to hear that?
You would have been you'd had more pop.
Oh, no.
A lot more.
I think.
He just kept your head in the game.
Yeah, well, if I were to say that, I would have to do a lot more tests.
I would have to drink more time.
Let's not say that.
Yeah, yeah, so we like the new and improved echo.
Yeah.
A lot better.
Right on.
But yeah, total performance is a go.
Straight up go.
It's in the rotation.
It is.
Real oil.
Total performance.
Alpha brain when needed.
Shroom tech when needed.
What other ones?
Did I miss?
Oh, where are your bars when needed?
That's my go to.
This is my EDC everyday consumption.
Not everyday carry, right?
Let's see other.
Anyway, by on it, if you don't know already, I know I said it before.
I'm going to say it again.
It's from on it.
The best supplements.
Not like power gain or 5,000 supplements.
Like the for real supplements that, you know.
But you got to do the workout.
You got to do get your rest.
You got to eat good.
The supplements is to supplement.
I think people overlooked that.
You know what?
Let's make a bar.
A good protein bar or a good steak bar.
And what is called good.
So that way you're going to eat good.
Are you eating good?
Yeah.
What do you know?
That's a good diet.
Anyway, if you want to, if you like these things, if you're down,
if you don't already have supplements.
And you want to get some supplements.
Give me the extra, you know, the boost.
The pop.
In this case.
Go on it.com.
If you want 10% off, throw a little slash jockel in there.
You get 10% off.
Boom.
To support everything.
Support the podcast support yourself.
And your gains.
Another way.
Yes.
Another way to do it is, or do it.
Meaning another way to support the podcast.
Big one.
Small but big.
Amazon click through.
What that is before you do Amazon shopping.
Whatever it is, you're by whether it's the
book that you write on this podcast, or otherwise, or anything.
Before you go to Amazon.com, go to jockelpodcast.com.
Click on the Amazon banner.
Then you go do your shopping.
So kind of supports.
So it's like this three way of support.
Think.
Small action.
Big impact.
So yeah, that's a good one.
Subscribe.
Of course, to iTunes, Stitcher, Google Play.
Right review on iTunes.
Yeah.
That's a good one.
Oh, support.
If you want.
Anyway, it seems obviously, subscribe to iTunes already, but in the event of you not subscribing.
Go subscribe if you want to support in that one.
Whatever it is you want to use Google Play.
Stitcher.
Stitcher, yeah.
There's another app I've been here lately, but I can't remember what it is.
That's not Spotify.
Is it?
That's something else.
That's not podcast.
I don't know.
But yeah, just subscribe.
Boom.
So I'm there.
And then YouTube.
So I'm going to put out more videos on a more consistent basis.
I think I put one up today.
Yesterday.
Mm.
Sometime very recently.
And you want to subscribe to the YouTube channel.
We'll watch the videos.
Get updates when one of the videos come out.
That's a good way to support too.
And then of course,
Joc was a store.
It's called Jocos Store.
You can get cool stuff.
I think it's cool.
And I'm not saying, go buy the shirts.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying go look on there.
We made an effort collectively to put some cool stuff out there.
But keeping my nuts are happening.
That's my opinion.
That they're cool.
If you think they're cool, then you get a shirt.
That's what I'm saying.
And you can support that way.
The shirts is rash guards for Jiu Jitsu or any kind of physical activity.
A lot of people use for cycling and crossfit.
Why not?
I'm really good for that.
They look cool.
I think they look cool.
The patches.
The velcro ones came back in.
So we got velcro patches back.
Some bumper stickers.
And who do these?
Of course.
We'll come out somewhere stuff I think.
I support that.
You support.
Okay.
There you go.
So yeah, if you want to support that way.
And Jocos supports this idea.
So another three way support closed circuit deal.
That's good getting that.
If you want, if you like it.
And then of course, psychological warfare.
Okay.
If you don't know what psychological warfare is.
It's in the album you can get.
And each track is.
When you feel weakness of like waking up.
Like if you're, and you know those days, I'm going to speak from experience.
Because I know a little bit about this.
The day where you're kind of hungover.
I know this was long time ago.
Maybe you're hungover.
Maybe you're tired.
You didn't get that much sleep.
Maybe maybe your mind is on something else.
And you're like, I know I told myself I was going to work out today.
But today I'm not feeling it.
I'm going to turn today into a rest day.
When you're thinking that like those moments of weakness.
You listen to one of these tracks to these tracks.
Whatever.
It's Jocos telling you why you should not skip today.
You see your waging psychological warfare on your mind.
This is.
Yes.
And the weakness is that I try to reveal themselves in your mind.
And I can say with 100% certainty that if you're having a day of,
or moment of weakness and you listen to this track,
whether you're about to eat some, you don't want your hungry.
When you miss like lunch and you're like,
Tang, I'm hungry.
And you see like, in whatever get donuts or orios or whatever.
When you're real hungry, it's kind of hard.
Anyway, if you're having a moment of weakness like that,
whether it be food stuff waking up early,
skipping workouts, whatever, listen to this.
Also with 100% certainty, you won't, you won't lack.
You won't slack.
Well, and there's also an awesome,
a young girl on Twitter, what someone's daughter.
And she's saying she's saying sugar coated.
Those donuts are sugar coated.
I actually got fired up.
I'm not going to do donut ever again.
I retweeted it.
It's awesome.
That was classic.
And you can get it on iTunes,
but you can also get it on Amazon.com or like Amazon music.
It's I saw on Amazon.
Oh, it's on there.
Okay.
Yes.
You don't know.
Hold it.
Well, here's the thing.
The very,
Oh, should I say, very competent distributor.
We're working with.
Oh, they distribute it.
I did choose all these things.
And I forgot that I went through that process already.
Because I was so focused on like iTunes or whatever.
And yes, so I ended the fact is I ended up going through that process.
And it did get distributed through there.
But since I don't use, I mean, I use it.
I'm a music, but I just seems like the obvious one.
I just didn't think about it.
Yeah, well, what's cool about Amazon is it puts when you,
if you look at.
Look at.
Jocquawaiti.
It'll say extreme ownership.
It'll say way of the war your kid.
And it'll say psychological warfare.
All right there from Amazon.
That's pretty awesome.
Boom.
Do I they understand your desires?
Because there's no way you can resist that one.
No, but it's right there.
You like, hey, this is awesome.
I'm going to get the the the the the the the grand slam.
Order them all.
And yeah, also yeah, so speaking of that, you can get the jockel light to you've had it by now.
And you know the deal.
You know that you're you know that you're clean and jerk is just out of control.
Your film that thing through the roof.
Also for international orders, by the way.
I hate to do this because it's going to put some work on the
resource income that's doing this for but if you go international go through eBay.
There's an official listing of jockel podcast.
You'll see that it sold by pro resource and they also it says the shipping is a hundred dollars.
That's not the shipping.
There's like very aid and shipping.
So they just kind of quote that price.
But then I think they figured out later.
So they don't have to ask me about that.
But yeah, we're trying to get it to people overseas.
I'm not saying it's going to not sell out quickly.
But it's there.
If also if you if you like when we talk about war or leadership on this podcast,
you can pick up the book, extreme ownership.
Right myself and my brother, the lay back and babbin wrote it.
And that's what we talk about leadership and war.
And like I said earlier, go ahead and get some copies.
And then you can get some copies of the way the warrior kid.
You're going to dig it.
Extreme ownership,
Master is happening May 4th and 5th at the Marriott Marquis New York City.
It's a conference for people that want to get after it.
That's what it is.
Leadership on the battlefield in business and in life.
Why do I say battlefield?
Well, first of all, because we have military people that will be there.
We have police officers that will be there.
Right business obviously we have business people firefighters.
They're there battle with fire, but it's a lot of it.
Majority of its business people that want to get after it.
And it's also people that want to get after it and lead in life.
It's going to sell out.
We have a if echo finally quality not quantity.
Finally a great video executed later is better than a good video executed now.
You'll probably probably have a video up pretty soon.
And until then, until the master, if you do want to cruise with us,
we can be found deep, deep inside the into webs on Twitter on Instagram.
And you have that face.
It's wonky bow hi, we gonna be on that one too.
Echo is at echo Charles and I am at juggle willing.
And finally, thanks for listening to this podcast.
And thank you for supporting it with everything that you do to support it.
But more important, thanks for getting in the game with us losing weight or gaining weight or learning
and you get to our leading better.
Guys like Army Vet James Kenny.
You know what, 64 years old?
No factor.
Surgery, no factor.
Torne muscles, no factor.
Three hour or something commuted to the gym to train you get to.
No factor.
Intrinsic will and discipline big factor.
Because James 64 years old just got his blue belt.
Congratulations James and I know a ton of you are out there doing the same thing.
Military members out on the battlefield police officers on the beat, firefighters on the scene.
You're doing the same thing smashing obstacles.
And the rest of you in the workforce working, grinding through the day and the night.
To get your work done and still getting after the workouts and the family events and the jutsu classes.
Thank you for what you are doing.
For realizing that if you have the will and the discipline, the obstacles you face are no factor.
And they cannot stop you from getting after it.
So until next time this is echo and juggle.
Out.